{{Documentation subpage}}

== Purpose ==
<code><nowiki>{{DPLA duplicate}}</nowiki></code> tags a file uploaded by
[[User:DPLA bot|DPLA bot]] that duplicates an existing Commons file, but
<b>throttles</b> how many such files are presented to administrators at once.

Rather than adding every duplicate directly to [[:Category:Duplicate]] (which
would flood the speedy-deletion queue with tens of thousands of files), this
template holds files in a private backlog —
[[:Category:DPLA duplicates for deletion]] — and releases them into
[[:Category:Duplicate]] a bounded number at a time, oldest first, as
administrators clear the previous batch. The release is governed by a single
"moving window" value at [[Template:DPLA duplicate/moving window]], advanced
automatically by a scheduled bot job. No per-file edits are made to reveal a
file; the window edit plus an invisible re-parse moves a whole batch.

== Usage ==
<pre>
{{DPLA duplicate | CORRECT FILENAME | ts = SORTKEY }}
</pre>

{| class="wikitable"
! Parameter !! Required !! Description
|-
| <code>1</code> (first positional) || yes || The correct filename this file
duplicates (without the <code>File:</code> prefix), passed straight through to
<code><nowiki>{{Duplicate}}</nowiki></code> when the file is released.
|-
| <code>ts</code> || yes || The sort key that determines release order. Must be
a <b>fixed-width, zero-padded, strictly increasing integer</b> (see below).
|}

== The <code>ts</code> sort key ==
The <code>ts</code> value is used both as the category sort key (so the backlog
sorts oldest-first) and as the quantity compared against the moving window.
Because MediaWiki category sort keys are compared <b>lexically</b>, the value
<b>must</b> be:

* <b>fixed width</b> and <b>zero-padded</b>, so lexical order equals numeric
  order (e.g. always 20 digits), and
* <b>unique per file</b>, so advancing the window by one step releases an exact
  count rather than a whole tied group.

The DPLA tagging job assigns <code>ts = unix_seconds &times; 100000 + sequence</code>,
zero-padded to 20 digits, where <code>sequence</code> is a per-run counter. This
preserves tagging order and guarantees uniqueness.

== How release works ==
A file is <b>released</b> (visible in [[:Category:Duplicate]]) when
<code>ts &lt; </code> the value at [[Template:DPLA duplicate/moving window]]:

* <b>Released</b> — transcludes <code><nowiki>{{Duplicate|CORRECT FILENAME}}</nowiki></code>,
  adding [[:Category:Duplicate]] and the F8 speedy-deletion request.
* <b>Not yet released</b> — adds only the backlog category
  [[:Category:DPLA duplicates for deletion]].

The two states are mutually exclusive, so the backlog category always reflects
work not yet surfaced to admins.

The window starts at <code>0</code> (nothing released) and is only ever advanced
by the <code>dpla-dup-window</code> scheduled job, which tops the visible count
back up to its target (~100) as administrators delete released files. The window
is monotonic — it never moves backward — so files never un-release.

To decide how many files to release, the job counts how many DPLA files are
currently in [[:Category:Duplicate]] by scanning that category (a few hundred
members) and matching the <code> - DPLA - </code> token in the filename. This
counts DPLA duplicates tagged by <i>any</i> route — both files released by this
template and files tagged directly with <code><nowiki>{{Duplicate}}</nowiki></code>
by the upload bot — so the two mechanisms share a single ~100-file budget rather
than each filling it independently.

'''Do not edit [[Template:DPLA duplicate/moving window]] by hand.'''

== See also ==
* [[:Category:DPLA duplicates for deletion]] — the backlog
* [[Template:Duplicate]] — the underlying speedy-deletion tag

<includeonly>[[Category:DPLA maintenance templates| ]]</includeonly>
